#sidebar SyntaxSidebar
= `formFromVars` =
[http://code.google.com/p/querytemplates/w/list Wiki] > [Syntax Syntax] > [formFromSyntax formFrom] > [formFromVarsMethodPHP formFromVars]
=== Parameters ===
 * *$varNames* _String|Array_
  Array of names of following vars:
   * record `[0]`
   Represents actual record as array of fields.
   * errors `[1]`
   Represents actual errors as array of fields. Field can also be an array.
   * data `[2]`
   Overloads $defaultData during template's execution.  Names should be without dollar signs.  Ex:
{{{
 array('row', 'errors.row', 'data');
 $errors`['row']` = array(
   'field1' => 'one error',
   'field2' => array('first error', 'second error')
 );

}}}

 * *$structure* _Array_
  Form structure information. This should be easily fetchable from ORM layer.  Possible types:
   * text (default)
   * password
   * hidden
   * checkbox
   * radio
   * textarea  Convention:
{{{
 'fieldName' => array(
   'fieldType', $fieldOptions
 )

}}}
  Where $fieldOptions can be (`key => value` pairs):
   * label
   * id
   * multiple (only select)  // TODO
   * values (only radio, MANDATORY)
   * value (only checkbox, optional)  There can be special field *`__form`*, which represents form element, as an array.  All values from it will be pushed as form attributes.  If you wrap fields' array within another array, it will represent *fieldsets*,  which value with index *`__label`* will be used as legend (optional).
 * *$defaultRecord* _Array_ = `null`
  Default field's value. Used when field isn't present within supplied record.  Ex:
{{{
 $defaultRecord = array(
     'text-field' => 'text-field default value',
     'select-field' => 'bar2',
     'select-field-optgroups-multiple' => array('group2_1', 'group2_2'),
     'checkbox-field' => false,
 );

}}}

 * *$defaultData* _Array_ = `null`
  Additional data for fields. For now it's only used for populating select boxes.  Example:
{{{
 $defaultData = array(
     'select-field-optgroups' => array(
         array(    // 1st optgroup
             '__label' => 'optgroup 1 label',
             'group1_1' => 'group1_1 label',
             'group1_2' => 'group1_2 label',
         ),
         array(    // 2nd optgroup
             '__label' => 'optgroup 2 label',
             'group2_1' => 'group2_1 label',
             'group2_2' => 'group2_2 label',
         ),
         'bar' => 'Bar',    // no optgroup
     ),
 );

}}}

 * *$template* _Array|String_ = `null`
  Input wrapper template. This template will be used for each field. Use array  to per field template, '__default' means default.  All types allowed in $structure can be used as per-type default template  when indexed like '__$type' ex '__checkbox'.  To each input wrapper will be added a class which is field's type.  Example:
{{{
 $templates`['__checkbox']` = '
 <div class="input">
     <div>Checkbox field below</div>
   <label/>
   <input/>
 </div>';

}}}
  Default template is:
{{{
 <div class="input">
   <label/>
   <input/>
   <ul class="errors">
     <li/>
   </ul>
 </div>

}}}

 * *$selectors* _Array_ = `null`
  Array of selectors indexed by it's type. Allows to customize lookups inside  inputs wrapper. Possible values are:
   * error - selects field's error wrapper
     * dafault value is '.errors'
   * label - selects field's label node (can be div, span, etc)
     * default value is 'label:first'
     * use array to per field name selector, '__default' means default
   * input - selects field's input node: input, textarea or select
     * default value is 'input:first'
     * use array to per field name selector, '__default' means default
     * %t is replaced by field node type (use it with customized per field $template)
 * *$fieldCallback* _Array|String|Callback_ = `null`
  Callback triggered after preparation of each field.


=== Description ===
EXPERIMENTAL - works, but not for production code


Method formFromVars acts as flexible form helper. It creates customized  exacutable form without the need of suppling a line of markup.


Form code is executed during template-execution and creates final form  using record from variable.


Created form have following features:

   * shows data from record (array or object)
   * shows errors
   * supports default values
   * supports radios and checkboxes
   * supports select elements with optgroups
   * overloadable $defaultData
   * overloadable $defaultRecord
Created form can be customized using:

   * input wrapper template (per field name, per field type and default)
   * selectors (for input, label and errors)
   * callbacks (per field)
== Example ==
{{{
 $structure = array(
     '__form' => array('id' => 'myFormId'),
     array(
         '__label' => 'Fieldset 1 legend',
         'default-field' => array(    // 'text' is default
             'label' => 'default-field label',
             'id' => 'default-field-id',
         ),
         'text-field' => array('text',
             'label' => 'text-field label',
             'id' => 'text-field-id',
         ),
         'hidden-field' => 'hidden',
         'checkbox-field' => 'checkbox',
     ),
     array(
         '__label' => 'Fieldset 2 legend',
         'select-field' => array('select',
             'label' => 'select-field label',
         ),
         'select-field-optgroups-multiple' => array('select',
             'label' => 'select-field-optgroups label',
         ),
         'radio-field' => array('radio',
             'values' => array('possibleValue1', 'possibleValue2')
         ),
         'textarea-field' => 'textarea',
     ),
 );

}}}
----

== See also ==
 * [varsToFormMethodPHP varsToForm]
 * [valuesToFormMethodPHP valuesToForm]
 * [formFromValuesMethodPHP formFromValues]


=== Comments allowed ===