#sidebar SyntaxSidebar
= `valuesToSelectorAttr` =
[http://code.google.com/p/querytemplates/w/list Wiki] > [Syntax Syntax] > [valuesToSyntax valuesTo] > [valuesToSelectorAttrMethodPHP valuesToSelectorAttr]
=== Parameters ===
 * *$attr* _String_
  Target attribute name.
 * *$values* _Array|Object_
  Associative array or Object containing markup, text or instance of Callback.
 * *$selectorPattern* _String_ = `'.%k'`
  Defines pattern matching target nodes. %k represents key.  Defaults to ".%k", which matches nodes with class name equivalent to  data source key.  For example, to restrict match to nodes with additional class "foo" change  $selectorPattern to ".foo.%k"
 * *$skipFields* _Array_ = `null`
  Array of fields from $values which should be skipped.
 * *$fieldCallback* _Callback|string_ = `null`
  Callback triggered after every insertion. Three parameters are passed to  this callback:
   * $node phpQueryObject
   * $field String
   * $target String|array


=== Description ===
Injects markup from $values' content (rows or attributes) as attribute of  nodes matched by selector. Method uses actually matched nodes as root  for the query.


Method doesn't change selected elements stack.


== Example ==


=== Markup ===
{{{
 <p class='field1'>lorem ipsum</p>
 <p class='field2'>lorem ipsum</p>

}}}
=== Data ===
{{{
 $values = array(
     'field1' => '<foo/>',
     'field2' => '<bar/>'
 );

}}}
=== `QueryTemplates` formula ===
{{{
 $template->
     valuesToSelectorAttr('rel', $values)
 ;

}}}
=== Template ===
{{{
 <p class="field1" rel="&lt;foo/&gt;">lorem ipsum</p>
 <p class="field2" rel="&lt;bar/&gt;">lorem ipsum</p>

}}}
=== Template tree before ===
{{{
 p.field1
  - Text:lorem ipsum
 p.field2
  - Text:lorem ipsum

}}}
=== Template tree after ===
{{{
 p.field1
  - Text:lorem ipsum
 p.field2
  - Text:lorem ipsum

}}}
----

== See also ==
 * [valuesToStackMethodPHP valuesToStack]
 * [valuesToFormMethodPHP valuesToForm]


=== Comments allowed ===