#sidebar SyntaxSidebar
= `valuesToSelectorAttr` =
[http://code.google.com/p/querytemplates/w/list Wiki] > [Syntax Syntax] > [valuesToSelectorSyntax valuesToSelector] > [valuesToSelectorAttrMethodJS ]
=== Parameters ===
 * *values* _Array|Object_
  Associative array or Object containing markup, text or instance of Callback.
 * *selectorPattern* _String_ = `'.%k'`
  Defines pattern matching target nodes. %k represents key.  Defaults to ".%k", which matches nodes with class name equivalent to  data source key.  For example, to restrict match to nodes with additional class "foo" change  selectorPattern to ".foo.%k"
 * *skipFields* _Array_ = `null`
  Array of fields from values which should be skipped.
 * *fieldCallback* _Function_ = `null`
  Callback triggered after every insertion. Two parameters are passed to this callback:
   * field String
   * target String|array
  Context (this) for the callback is node matched for a field.

=== Description ===
Injects markup from values' content (rows or attributes)  nodes matched by selector. Method uses actually matched nodes as root for the query.

== Example ==

=== Markup ===
{{{
<p class='field1'>lorem ipsum</p>
<p class='field2'>lorem ipsum</p>
}}}

=== Data ===
{{{
var values = {
	'field1' => '<foo/>',
	'field2' => '<bar/>',
};
}}}

=== `QueryTemplates` formula in JavaScript ===
{{{
$template
	.valuesToSelectorAttr(values)
}}}

=== Template ===
{{{
<p class="field1" rel="&lt;foo/&gt;">lorem ipsum</p>
<p class="field2" rel="&lt;bar/&gt;">lorem ipsum</p>
}}}

=== Template tree before ===
{{{
p.field1
 - Text:lorem ipsum
p.field2
 - Text:lorem ipsum
}}}

=== Template tree after ===
{{{
p.field1
 - Text:lorem ipsum
p.field2
 - Text:lorem ipsum
}}}

----
See:
 * [valuesToStackMethodJS valuesToStack]
 * [valuesToFormMethodJS valuesToForm]

=== Comments allowed ===