#sidebar SyntaxSidebar
= `varsToStackAfter` =
[http://code.google.com/p/querytemplates/w/list Wiki] > [Syntax Syntax] > [varsToSyntax varsTo] > [varsToStackAfterMethodPHP varsToStackAfter]
=== Parameters ===
 * *$varName* _String_
  Variable avaible in scope of type Array or Object.  $varName should NOT start with $.
 * *$varFields* _Array|Object_
  Variable value with all fields (keys) OR array of variable fields (keys).  Param needs to be passed thou array_keys for non-assosiative arrays.
 * *$skipFields* _Array_ = `null`
  Array of keys from $varValue which should be skipped.
 * *$fieldCallback* _Callback|string_ = `null`
  Callback triggered after every insertion. Three parameters are passed to  this callback:
   * $node phpQueryObject
   * $field String
   * $target String|array


=== Description ===
Injects executable code printing variable's fields after actually matched  nodes. Second param needs to be wrapped with array_keys for  non-assosiative arrays.


Method doesn't change selected elements stack.


== Example ==


=== Markup ===
{{{
 <node1>
   <node2/>
 </node1>
 <node2/>
 <node1>
   <node2/>
 </node1>

}}}
=== Data ===
{{{
 $foo = new stdClass();
 $foo->first = 'foo';
 $foo->second = 'bar';

}}}
=== `QueryTemplates` formula ===
{{{
 $template['node1']->
     varsToStackAfter('foo', $foo)
 ;

}}}
=== Template ===
{{{
 <node1><node2></node2></node1><?php  if (isset($foo['first'])) print $foo['first'];
 else if (isset($foo->{'first'})) print $foo->{'first'};  ?><node2></node2><node1><node2></node2></node1><?php  if (isset($foo['second'])) print $foo['second'];
 else if (isset($foo->{'second'})) print $foo->{'second'};  ?>

}}}
=== Template tree before ===
{{{
 node1
  - node2
 node2
 node1
  - node2

}}}
=== Template tree after ===
{{{
 node1
  - node2
 PHP
 node2
 node1
  - node2
 PHP

}}}
----

== See also ==
 * [varsToSelectorMethodPHP varsToSelector]
 * [varsToFormMethodPHP varsToForm]


=== Comments allowed ===