#sidebar SyntaxSidebar
= `varsToSelectorAfter` =
[http://code.google.com/p/querytemplates/w/list Wiki] > [Syntax Syntax] > [varsToSyntax varsTo] > [varsToSelectorAfterMethodPHP varsToSelectorAfter]
=== Parameters ===
 * *$varName* _String_
  Variable avaible in scope of type Array or Object.  $varName should NOT start with $.
 * *$varFields* _Array|Object_
  Variable value with all fields (keys) OR array of variable fields (keys).
 * *$selectorPattern* _String_ = `'.%k'`
  Defines pattern matching target nodes. %k represents key.  Defaults to ".%k", which matches nodes with class name equivalent to  variables key (field).  For example, to restrict match to nodes with additional class "foo" change  $selectorPattern to ".foo.%k"
 * *$skipFields* _Array_ = `null`
  Array of keys from $varValue which should be skipped.
 * *$fieldCallback* _Callback|string_ = `null`
  Callback triggered after every insertion. Three parameters are passed to  this callback:
   * $node phpQueryObject
   * $field String
   * $target String|array


=== Description ===
Injects executable code printing variable's fields after nodes matched by  selector. Method uses actually matched nodes as root for the query.


Method doesn't change selected elements stack.


== Example ==


=== Markup ===
{{{
 <p class='field1'>lorem ipsum</p>
 <p class='field2'>lorem ipsum</p>

}}}
=== Data ===
{{{
 $foo = new stdClass();
 $foo->field1 = 'foo';
 $foo->field2 = 'bar';

}}}
=== `QueryTemplates` formula ===
{{{
 $template->
     varsToSelectorAfter('foo', $foo)
 ;

}}}
=== Template ===
{{{
 <p class="field1">lorem ipsum</p>
 <?php  if (isset($foo['field1'])) print $foo['field1'];
 else if (isset($foo->{'field1'})) print $foo->{'field1'};  ?>
 <p class="field2">lorem ipsum</p>
 <?php  if (isset($foo['field2'])) print $foo['field2'];
 else if (isset($foo->{'field2'})) print $foo->{'field2'};  ?>

}}}
=== Template tree before ===
{{{
 p.field1
  - Text:lorem ipsum
 p.field2
  - Text:lorem ipsum

}}}
=== Template tree after ===
{{{
 p.field1
  - Text:lorem ipsum
 PHP
 p.field2
  - Text:lorem ipsum
 PHP

}}}
----

== See also ==
 * [varsToStackMethodPHP varsToStack]
 * [varsToFormMethodPHP varsToForm]


=== Comments allowed ===